---
layout: home
license: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0
---
## 45 YEARS OLD AND GOING STRONG! COME AND JOIN US!

## Our Mission
The recreation, exploration, education, and enjoyment of Renaissance history, peoples, practices and cultures.

## About This Site
This is the website for the Empire of the Imperial Magistracy. Our characters call this our Tome of Visions and Knowledge. It is like a great book with a wealth of information on its many pages for the characters.

## At a Glance
The Empire of the Imperial Magistracy is many things to many people. If one looked in on a gathering, they would see many sights. There you can see in the distance a candle lit gathering on a summer night. Music weaves about you in the still night air with the sounds of fifes, strings and drums as you draw closer. You begin to hear the murmur of voices and singing and the shadows of Imperial Citizens dancing in the night. In a grove, you see a roaring fire where Imperial Citizens sit about speaking on various topics. You hear something about history, while another talks of politics, a third talks of a love, and another talks of their ability to make the item of yet another's dreams. They seem to quiet down suddenly as they give their attention to a play about the fire.

As one walks quietly up to the window of the feasting hall and looks within, there may be viewed many men and women dressed in the clothing of the 16th century. Some sit about a feasting table eating upon loaves of bread or sweet meats. Others take up their goblets in a toast to fellow members of the Imperial Guard that won the day at the tournaments. Those shadows of dancing reveal their source within the hall as you see smiling faces of Imperial Citizens twirling, hand in hand. In the corner of the hall is the source of the music and singing in the embodiment of a group of men and women with simple instruments of the day and their melodic voices. Finally, the music suddenly changes to a serious tone and a man and woman in stately garments call all to sit about the feasting table.

This provides a look inside the Empire of the Imperial Magistracy. As one can imagine, the Empire holds many interests for many different people. If one likes history, fencing, romance, stories, plays, processions, music, ceremony, singing, politics, learning, games, feasts, tournaments or intrigue, the Empire has something for you!

### How is the Renaissance period relevant to today? Let's see what was happening in 1589!
Many people are aware of the Spanish Armada that was created by the Kingdom of Spain in 1588 devised to escort an army from Flanders to invade England and overthrow Queen Elizabeth I, stop English interference in the Spanish Netherlands and stop the harm of Spanish interests in America by English and Dutch privateer ships. These goals were hampered by English ships that were faster and more maneuverable than the larger Spanish galleons. The Spanish Armada was also disrupted further by storms that caused a large number of ships to be wrecked on the coasts of Scotland and Ireland causing more than a third of the initial 130 ships to fail to return to Spain.

In 1589 a lesser known English Armada, Counter Armada or what was also termed the Drake-Norris Expedition that was composed of a fleet of warships was sent to Spain by Queen Elizabeth I. An immediate goal of the English Armada was to burn the weakened Spanish Atlantic fleet that had been damaged the year before when Spain tried to attack England. The Spanish fleet was known to be docked at Coruna, San Sebastian and Santander which were ports along the northern coast of Spain on the Bay of Biscay. The English hoped to have a success much like they had in 1587 when Sir Francis Drake had raided Cadiz.

A deeper issue that had existed since 1580 was that the Kingdom of Portugal had been controlled by King Philip II of the Kingdom of Spain. This caused Spain to establish a trade embargo against England that disallowed the English from trade in places such as Portugal, Brazil, the East Indies, and various ports in India and China as well as any of the various lands under the control of the Spanish Empire. The last surviving heir to the House of Aviz of the Kingdom of Portugal, Antonio, Prior of Crato, was in exile in the Azores, a group of islands west of Europe in the Atlantic Ocean, and he had sought out the support of the Kingdom of England. The English hoped to land in the port of Lisbon on the Portuguese coast and raise a revolt against King Philip II of Spain or as he was also known, King Philip I of Portugal. In turn, the English would be allowed to establish a permanent base in the Azores. If the revolt in Lisbon was successful, it might allow Portugal to be freed of its rule under King Philip II of Spain. If a base of operations in the Azores could be established, then the English could use that to seize Spanish treasure fleets returning from America.

The English Armada was established as a joint stock company which gained a quarter of the 80,000 pounds directly from Queen Elizabeth I, one eighth from the Dutch and the rest from Noblemen, merchants and guilds. Sir Francis Drake led the expedition as its Admiral and Sir John Norreys was General. The fleet consisted of six royal galleons, 60 English armed merchantmen, 60 Dutch flyboats and 20 pinnances. Initial confusion over logistics and adverse weather delayed the departure of the English Armada. Furthermore, the Dutch didn't supply promised warships and a third of the victuals were consumed while the fleet remained docked. It should also be noted that there were only 1,800 veteran soldiers, while there was 19,000 volunteers. Finally, the English lacked siege guns and cavalry.

Sir Francis Drake decided not to go to the port of Santander where the majority of the Spanish fleet were being refitted, but instead sailed to the port of Coruna which was almost defenseless. The defense of the port consisted of one Spanish galleon, two galleys, and two other smaller ships with 1,500 soldiers in the port. After the capture of the lower port, 500 Spanish casualties, the plundering of wine cellars, and a two week siege on the upper fortified town, the English retreated to their ships after the loss of three large ships and various other boats and 4,500 men. Furthermore, at this point, several of the Dutch decided to return to England or dock in La Rochelle in the Kingdom of France. Upon leaving Coruna, Sir Francis Drake decided to direct the fleet south towards the port of Lisbon. The fleet initially landed in the port of Peniche, approximately 30 miles north of Lisbon, and the locals handed the port over to the English. Then they continued to Lisbon with 11,000 men and 110 ships. The English lacking many siege guns and coordination, failed to take Lisbon from 7,000 Portuguese and Spanish troops and 40 ships in the harbor. The English had been informed there was a disaffected garrison in Lisbon, but the Spanish bolstered their defenses while the English were in a siege for two weeks in Coruna.

Queen Elizabeth I would not offer reinforcements or a siege train, because she had no desire to have a land war in the Iberian peninsula and so she called for the English Armada to establish a base in the Azores. General Norreys sailed back to England with the wounded and sick due to disease. Admiral Drake set out for the Azores with only 20 ships. The remains of the English Armada were damaged by a heavy storm. Then they made their way to Porto Santo in Madeira which was a smaller group of islands to the southwest of Europe to try to raid and plunder the island for some type of compensation for their efforts, only to have their flag ship, the Revenge, spring a leak due to the previous storm. This caused the remains of the English Armada to return to England.

The result was that the English had lost about 40 ships due to the Spanish naval forces, but more so due to the storms the English Armada encountered. Disease and conflict killed several of the men of the English Armada and when a portion of the sick and wounded returned to England, disease spread in the ports in England upon their return. The English were able to capture 150 cannon and 30,000 pounds worth of plunder, but they failed to destroy the Spanish fleet, have a successful revolt in Lisbon or establish a base in the Azores.

## Calendar of Events
This is the event schedule for the current year. Our new year starts in January much like today as the Gregorian Calendar exists in the time period we reenact. If you are interested in attending one of these events, please contact the current Ruler at the address listed in the "Contact Us" section of this page.

| Date | Event |
| --- | --- |
| March 29, 2025 | Imperial Festival of Guilds |
| June 21, 2025 | Imperial Festival of Eagles |
| ~~August 30, 2025~~ | ~~Imperial Festival of Culture~~ |
| October 18, 2025 | Imperial Festival of the Harvest |

### How much?
The topic of money is on all of our minds because many people have been hit financially in their every day lives. The good news is that the Empire of the Imperial Magistracy is one of the few groups that exists that asks for minimal annual dues of $5.00. We may also assess our financial situation as we move along throughout the year and if we need money for something we will discuss how we will collect the money needed at that point. We do NOT ask for fees at each gathering. Instead, all we ask is that individuals come to the gathering with a contribution of food or drink for the feast. The rest of the cost is covered by the Empire of the Imperial Magistracy or the host of the event. Finally, the Empire of the Imperial Magistracy has specific positions set aside within the group where members perform duties to keep the group running. Unlike many groups where these positions are performed with no compensation, the Empire of the Imperial Magistracy compensates the individual for their work with in-character coin. In-character coin that can be used when money is called to pay a debt or if the characters wish to barter with each other.

### What?
The Empire of the Imperial Magistracy is a historical recreation organization. It portrays a hypothetical colony in the New World in North America in the late 16th century. It runs on the premise that a group of colonists came over in the year 1479 and crashed on the shores of Lake Ontario, 13 years before Christopher Columbus would make his way to the New World. Over one hundred years have passed and characters are living in an ever expanding colony in the New World. There is interaction, role-playing and reenactment at physical gatherings approximately five times a year as well as computer online role-playing. The computer online role-playing charts the characters' movements and gives them depth. When the characters meet at gatherings they can tell of their adventures since they were last together.

### Where?
The Empire of the Imperial Magistracy is a group that is centered in Upstate New York with members in various parts of New York and Pennsylvania. If you don't live in these areas, that does not preclude you from the group! We welcome you from any portion of the world as long as you can attend a gathering once a year. It is also very helpful to have computer online access in order to keep in touch with the rest of the group, perform online role-playing and receive information about upcoming events.

### When?
The Empire of the Imperial Magistracy started in 1977 in a small village in Upstate New York. It has lasted over four decades. It had a familial atmosphere when it started and it still has such to this day. We are not as large as some groups which allows everyone to get to know each other. Many of the members are friends outside of the group.

### Who?
The members of the Empire of the Imperial Magistracy are from various backgrounds. We believe discrimination in any form is unacceptable and we welcome all to our group. All ages are welcome into the group, but if you are under the age of 16 we will ask for parental or guardian permission prior to you joining.

### Why?
Many have asked why should someone do reenactment of a period of time other than their own. For some it is to learn about history in a physical way, not just by reading books, but by trying to walk in the footsteps of our ancestors. For others it is to learn particular trades or arts. Still others love the social interaction it affords. There are others that love to escape for a weekend and be that character they always wanted to be. Some enjoy the thrill and excitement of tournament combat that was so prevalent during this period. It could even be that some people simply enjoy dressing in the clothing of the period. In the end, it is to be able to spend time with friends and, in some cases, family, participating in a hobby they enjoy together.

## Guilds
In the Empire of the Imperial Magistracy, members can associate their characters to one or more of the Imperial Guilds that exist. There are a number of guilds that allow the character, and therefore the member, to learn more about a particular craft or art. There are guilds for music makers, tailors, actors, politicians, those who wish to make spirits or feasts and even a guild that just allows the character to learn on simply whatever topic that suits them best. Furthermore, if a member has an idea for a new guild, all they need to do is propose such to be created.

The Imperial Guilds allow the character to rise in the ranks within that guild. Eventually, they are called upon to create a masterpiece and whence it is done and approved by the Guild Leader and the Ruler of the Empire of the Imperial Magistracy, they will be considered a Master Craftsman in their particular guild.

## Imperial Guard
The Imperial Guard is a portion of the Empire of the Imperial Magistracy that is associated with combat. It allows members that enjoy tournaments and padded weapon fighting to do so.

Then again, the Imperial Guard is more than simply participating in tournaments. It is also an opportunity to learn the progression of education that a militia man might have taken when he was a part of the military. Since many of our members are well above the age that most men would have learned to become a militia man, they will go through the process that otherwise might have been started when they were children or teenagers. They learn and experience fighting with padded weapons, but they also learn manners, poetry, dancing, tactical skills, and morals. These were important aspects. This was a world reserved for men, but in the Empire of the Imperial Magistracy we realize that some women enjoy sword play as well, so we allow equal opportunity for each gender in the Imperial Guard.

We continue to expand forms of combat that are available. We have used light weapon combat for a long time, but we can use heavy weapon combat as well. We enforce the use of protective devices when doing this heavy weapon combat. We also have archery and fencing for those with the proper equipment.

Although tournaments happen at almost every gathering, once a year there are tournaments that focus on the status of the Empire's, Ruler's and Imperial Consort's Champions. They are the top Imperial Guards that win after a day of various tournament games, not all of which are combat based. An Imperial Guard must not just be able to fight, but also have other qualities within them.

## Clergy
In the Empire of the Imperial Magistracy there are several individuals with religious faiths. For some members, their character's religion is the center of their life, while for others their religion is not discussed or focused upon. Those that have decided to be a part of the Imperial Clergy have made their religious viewpoint their life. Those that take the path of religion will be able to assist with ceremonies such as marriages or blessings. One individual within the Imperial Clergy will be able to take on the responsibilities of the Imperial High Cleric which is a kind of Pontiff for all religions in the Empire of the Imperial Magistracy, but the Imperial High Cleric does not dictate or mandate a state religion for the Empire of the Imperial Magistracy.

Any religions that were established within or prior to the 16th century are allowable for your character. Religious intolerance was rife in the 16th century, but the characters in the Empire of the Imperial Magistracy have a freedom of religion that is not found elsewhere. This is not to say that religions do not clash in their view point. In most cases this leads simply to debates and rarely brings the characters into battle over such issues.

## Pax Imperium
The Pax Imperium or Imperial peace means much of what the words indicate. The Empire of the Imperial Magistracy does not want to have conflicts with any other groups like itself. We feel that conflict is counterproductive and it would be better to work together for a common good. Therefore, the Pax Imperium was created to give an opportunity for our group to come together in peaceful alliances with other groups that enjoy renaissance or medieval reenactment. If you are a part of a reenactment group and would like to discuss coming together under this pledge of peace, please [contact us](mailto:eimruler@outlook.com). We would be pleased to hear from other groups similar to our own.

## Role-Playing
The role-playing system utilized by members of the Empire of the Imperial Magistracy is computer based. Members decide what their characters will do and then create e-mails describing their actions. These e-mails are sent to the narrator who then determines what will happen based on the actions taken by the character. Results of the character's actions are based on factors such as character abilities, environmental factors, the situation at hand, location of the character, and also random factors.

In the computer based role-playing system, characters can own anything from cottages to castles depending on their character's financial situation and status. They can own their own businesses, their own armies and their own ships. If it can be done in the physical world with the situation the character has before them, it most likely can happen for the character. To extend a bit more realism to the narrations, they have non-member characters speaking to the character and they also have pictures of people they encounter or structures seen along their travels.

Below is a short example of a narration that might be received by a character.

ROLE-PLAY

August 11, 1573 8:34pm

:::::Once the directions to the home of the Spanish woman fell from the lips of Marbeth, the lead cloaked figure turned quickly to face the driver, yet as has been the case such would be an ironic statement as still their faces were not visible. At once, the lead individual directed the driver with both arms flailing wildly for him to move out towards the carriage. The lead figure showed utter impatience and a sense of purpose all at once just by actions, while never mentioning a word. Marbeth could also notice how the driver figure seemed to almost cower in the lead figure's presence. He actually moved backward at the sight of the flailing and was trying to turn and move backward at the same time and such did cause him to fall and hit the ground squarely. He then turned himself and pushed himself up from the ground with his hands and started at a run for the black carriage.

The lead figure was walking with a quick gait once again, towards the carriage, but the driver just beat him to the carriage and quickly opened the carriage door to allow the lead figure inside. The driver proceeded to secure the carriage door and then jumped up to the top of the carriage where he grabbed for the reins of the horses. Before him was simply mist all around and very little could be seen due to it and the impending darkness of night. The driver then thought a moment before speeding away as he knew he should and jumped down to light the lanterns on the outside of the carriage. He hoped that such an action would assist them in finding their way through the mist and darkness. He jumped down with a tinderbox in hand and struck it a few times to light the first lantern. Then once such was lit, he ran to the other side of the carriage. During his race around the carriage, he could hear his passenger becoming impatient as something was banging upon the inside wall of the carriage. It was an obvious signal from his passenger to hurry up!:::::

## Contact Us
As with all groups, the Empire of the Imperial Magistracy has a contact point. During each year that contact may change as it is based on who within the story line is the Ruler of the Empire of the Imperial Magistracy. Below is the contact information to receive more information about our group. We will answer all e-mails and respond as quickly as possible. Generally you should receive an email within 24 hours, unless the individual is unable to retrieve their e-mail for whatever reason for a period of time.

[Contact us](mailto:eimruler@outlook.com)

## Members
If you are already a member of the Empire of the Imperial Magistracy, please continue to our [member site](http://eimtome.wikidot.com/) and log in. Please be aware that in order to join this site, you must first be an official member of the Empire of the Imperial Magistracy.
